Created and presented by Thomas Bryant for Southern New Hampshire University.

Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

WeightMonitor was designed to support the needs of a user aiming to gain or lose weight with a specific goal and timeframe in mind. With an account creation screen / login page, daily weight entries, and the ability to modify goal weights / current weights on command as well as a day to day graph to highlight progress over a specific period of time, WeightMonitor meets these user goals. With simplistic, Android Stylized buttons and modules to quickly and adequately allow the user to interact with the app and move between screens and brief descriptions where confusion could be present, the app keeps the user in mind while helping keep simplicity at heart. I follow a backend first style of programming, where I design core functionality such as helper functions and various classes or methods that will be reused before I create greater user functionality - a method that I find allows me to focus on what the user is going to be doing and how before I give the user the chance to do it. This helps ensure the user has the smoothest integration - as they are the last piece of a carefully constructed puzzle and I can allow them to fit into every other square. To test if code was functional I developed in segments - slowly chipping away at key features like the user login pages first, then the database interaction, and more - completing each as I went and testing along the way with greater testing being performed sequentially as the app was developed. One of the greatest innovations the app supports is the use of the graph plugin to show database data - but only the data of the specific user actively signed in. This method overcame the requirement for a table and helped improve user privacy where privacy would be so important in a built app - people's weight information is sensitive, no need to show everyone's data at once, even in what is a demo application. I am most proud of the database and the way it functions - something I struggled with in time's past. MySQL was never a strong suit of mine years prior, and I often worked with more developed databases like Amazon's Firebase to help mitigate that problem. This project, using SQLite, forced me into the deep end of databse development, and while I understood the concepts of normalized forms and database relational tables, I really hadn't done any work with them in a meaningful way as to include them in a functional project before the creation of this project, and I am proud to say I believe the databse perfectly encompasses my growth with the SQL system and shows proficiency in both Android Studio development tools and in using SQL to create a grouping of successful relational tables. 
